---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"//2-2-3-revering-and-relying-upon-the-dharma-pt-1-responses/"}
---


<div class="nav-callout"><span></span><details><summary>🗺️ Navigation</summary><div><span>⬆️ </span><strong>Area: </strong><a class="internal-link" data-href="Atlas/Sources/Courses/Dharma Training Course for Mitras (Year Two).md" href="Atlas/Sources/Courses/Dharma Training Course for Mitras (Year Two).md">Dharma Training Course for Mitras (Year Two).md</a></div></details></div>


Please can of course be right or wrong We're very shedding between and to determine one from the other I really need to consider three things  
- The accuracy and balance of the data 
- the values that are being served 
- the outcome



It describes the two extremes of view, eternalism which can have very negative consequences in terms of believing that things do not end, and nihilism, which is dangerous because it puts forward that things don't have any meaning, as a vast generalisation. 
White view brings us back to what can clearly be seen in experience whether that's from what is happening to or in us at any particular moment, or of what we know from those we have found to be wise. 

Integrity and good intentions are not enough and intelligent understanding that chords with the way things truly are is essential as the ideas that we have to our experience or shape the way we act for good or for evil. 

Considering the enormous destructive potential the modern technology, one could say the survival of the world today depends on the widespread influence of more helpful views about the nature of this life, humanities meaning and purpose, and the responsibility that one human being has to another and to other beings too. 

Wrong views lead to a distortion of human experience and at best, prevent genuine spiritual aspiration achieving its full flowering, in the middle that caused division, and at worst they lead to all the evils of which human beings of capable. 

But until we can see things directly as they are we rely on white views for our practise of the dharma, which is why study is such an important aspect after practise. Orientation 

This requires a steer quite their self-examination especially through steady and discussion of the dharma with those clear and ourselves. At the same time we must acquire white views for, the set of ideas about things that direct us back to how they really are and teach us to live in harmony with others and ourselves, through ethics and meditation, and then through wisdom, to gain liberation from suffering. 

1.  to be direct and clear 
2. To be able to share it 
3. Not really, but a sense of dharma as a whole as there are other teachers that I have listened to more of 
4. To clarify what views are the two extremes and why they are so important fundamentally especially in this day and age 
7. I notice a sense of feeling I understand something so conceptually because it rings true with me, however this is covering over a dep th of understanding, and I think that comes from the insight way of looking, or at least that's what I'm playing with at the moment from hearing Rob burbea talk about it.
8. I think we kind of do that all the time 
9. Can't remember them. 
10. Eternalism leads to apathy if you feel you will be rewarded in the next life or at worst this life is not as important as the as the future life because of some belief or another and you can do all sorts of things for that, annihilate stick narrow pursuit of pleasure and carelessness or denial of moral values is dangerous by its description to ones itself and someone else. 
11. Consumerism is a ignoring of a bigger picture world outside of the consumer society which takes a fair amount of effort and self-reflection to step out of, but also a level of privilege to be able to have that time I think. I try and be relatively mindful of my purchases but to be honest with you if I want something and you're made my life better I just get it and I don't have the money to buy the most ethical so I am a really bad example ethically of it even though I do make ethical choices within it. It's one of those where I could do better and I will espouse the effect on society but I contribute to it because I think it's so ingrained in our Western life. 
12. I love you on the fairly superficial level I guess but that I had to have some features available to me in my workflow and this was not available because two pieces of software are not updated enough so I needed to find workarounds, and I knew yesterday that that work around was very unlikely to work cuz I've tried a similar one and gone all the way around the houses with it and literally spent 2 hours maybe more trying to solve it, it's of the view of I really need to get this rather than what would be the most effective and efficient way of doing it and I ended up spending another hour and it not working, although I do have an understanding of it so maybe that's a s*** sample 
13. I do listen to a lot of things which I think are useful in terms of keeping my view on track and hepling to shape it. I also reflect and think about the dharma, but I think the the real use would be the rob burbea mentioned notion of insight looking and mixing that up with the reading the reflecting the meditating.

Is there anything that is fundamental truth. Yes. I think so. we can all verify that everything is impermanen....., or can we?.. maybe energy molecules atoms and all that, never get destroyed they're just change form. But how relevant is it to know the science side, and how do we know we can trust the science we've found. So maybe it's just in relative terms of human experience, whichbhere may well be fundamental truth. Everything is perception 